# Physical weathering

Codes used to generate figures and analysis in Chapter 7 of Willgoose G R (2018) "Principles of Soilscape and Landscape Evolution", Cambridge University Press.

This github repository include the sample landscape evolution codes that were used to create figures in Willgoose G R (2018) “ Principles of Soilscape and Landscape Evolution”, Cambridge University Press. You may download these codes and play with them, modify them and distribute them to others under only two conditions. These two conditions are that

(1) if you publish any results using them you provide a reference to my Cambridge University Press book and this github site, and

(2) if you modify these codes you and distribute them to others that you (a) do not remove the existing header block at the top of the Python files that identify that Garry Willgoose was the original developer of the code (which includes a reference to the Cambridge University Press book), and (b) you add a subsequent header block that indicates that you have modified the code from the original (and summarises how you modified it). The first (a) condition ensures that I continue to get credit for the original work of developing the code, while the (b) condition means that I don’t get flooded with bug fix requests for bits of code that others have added to my original code.

As a courtesy it would be good that after you have enhanced the code you send it to me so that it can be added to this github site, so that all researchers may benefit from your enhancements.

One note about the codes themselves. The codes are not particularly well optimised (either in appearance or performance). My focus was to make the codes as simple to understand as practical, while minimising the amount of time I spent generating the figures in the book.

# Figures 7.5, 7.6 and 7.7

These figures are sensitivity studies of the time evolution and final grading for a variety of fragmentation mechanisms. The code here has more fragmentation mechanisms than the code used for the book, but is otherwise identical. It was extended in 2017 for a field testing project and results using it will be published in due course.

To run the code to reproduce the figures in the book use the command

python soilfrag-sens.py -cal_dia 0.1 -all_daughters -dia_max 18.0 -time 2000 -cal_obj d50 -cal_auto

To understand what the options mean for this command type

python soilfrag-sens.py -help

Figure 7.5 is from figure for the fragmentation model p2-0-100 (Figure 3 as generated by the program). The leveling off region is slightly different to the book because the particle size distribution range in the model online here has slightly more resolution.

Figure 7.6 and 7.7 are from the consolidated figures (Figure 26 and 27). Note that there are more frangementation models than in the figures in the book because the code was enhanced post the finalisation of the figures in the book.

